Hello everyone,
Thank you for having me. I feel honored to speak on this conference, The future of globalization. Globalization is water enables me to talk in front of all of you right now. It gives us benefits that nobody would have even thought about 100 years ago.
If I were to buy something online right now it would probably be prepared for shipping while I am talking to you. Through the Internet we can talk with anyone at any time. Through globalized travel we can travel around the world without limits.
Globalization has brought us great things, being close with our loved ones even though we cannot see them personally, being able to travel after graduating and considering studying somewhere else, or just casually buying clothing online that you forgot you needed for a conference.
But are those things really all that advantageous?
For me, being able to communicate online stops being comfortable if you are forced to only do so. This is an experience we have all made with Covid-19 which forest most of us to distance ourselves from other people and rely on online communication. But did we get to this point? I read an article about the arise, spread and prevention of pandemics. Now you are probably thinking what do pandemics have to do with globalization?.
Globalization supports pandemics in every aspect of their emergence. They arise faster since we have turned a lot of wildlife habitat into agriculture, which gets humans into contact with wildlife. Birds and mammals are the origin of most of the pandemics.
The pandemic travels around the world through our globalized travel and transport system whits in your front yard. And so you are forced to sit inside and wait for the vaccine.
Vaccines are an advantage from globalization since scientists from all over the world can work together to create one. Nevertheless, the pandemic needs to be stopped before I can even start. To prevent pandemics from even happening we need to protect nature and our environment.
We not only need to stop over consumption, which leads to deforestation and exploitation of wildlife and resources, but also need to punish companies that don't follow those rules. We need to fight against climate change which globalization has made it worse due to overconsumption, the transport and travel system and companies outsourcing every step of production. Not only wildlife causes pandemics but in the future melting glaciers which might carry diseases from thousand of years ago will.
Problems like pandemics and climate change came to life or were made worse due to globalization. Those problems can only be solved globally. If someone were to ask me what I imagine the future of globalization like, I would like to include all of the positive aspects mentioned previously.
Such as travel, communication, access to goods and the internet. However, everything should be consumed in moderation. Less travel and less consumption will help the environment and therefore us. If we want to stop viruses, floods, wild fires, natural disasters and the earth heating up we need to start working together globally.
We need to stop relying on ending resources, overproduction, over-consumption, non regional productions that flying 30 min for a business.
All countries, every individual has to start protecting the environment to stop the negative aspects of globalization such as climate change and pandemics. We cannot always wait for problems to get really bad until we try to find a solution. Your decisions determine our future.
Thank you for listening.
